Business Intelligence projects Q2

VOD strategy - what is meaningful
value of VOD users
reaction to Tubi surpassing Pluto
can VOD exp be better?  sure
avod exp has a home page destination
SWAT team - low hanging fruit, fix the basics
quality issues improvement
id new features to become a consuming experience.
end cards to make VOD a more passive experience
timing with credits
users will deliberately need to avoid going to next content
swat is focusing on dominant platforms
optimize monetization in VOD
ad exp improvement in vod with countdown timer
markers along vod
find optimal mix between linear/vod
tony simon may optimize optimal ad exp
imp time to first frame 

backlog of maintenance and new features
quick releases in kanban style
small agile team without other priorities


registration
a lot of eyes on first experiment of hard/soft wall
understand level of impact biz can accept in order to get x% of users registration
can't currently get logged in state
modeling exercise of losses vs. increased usage
golden state reg user that consumes a high octane state of ads - addressable
what does addressable mean?
can mean (in this context) can we monetize it?
people who watch without getting to an ad break are not monetizable.

was there an opportunity to monetize
;
4 topics
1 - registration:  modeling out of AB tests
optimizing the reg funnel
discovery moments - activation or in app messaging, idea of moving people to more valuable engagement with addressable tvms
state where user exudes desired engagement and behaviors
back end pipelines don't exist and can't act upon - current grey areas

VOD/Home 
carousel ordering - home page and jupiter (intl) may have home as default
end cards
impact of changes and what does it mean for Pluto
future state vision - hesitancy about dropping into live.  

utilize personalization to make up for initial losses in tvms
ok to lose some tvms or maus in the beginning
theory on reg wall is gonna take a hit in tvms in maus

don't go laid back - will lose maus
low value tvms initially, unhealthy for biz long term

engagement from high value users with high intent
we need to have the quality conversation, short term near term may be painful

do you know cpms for tubi vs. pluto?  
a lot goes into cpms with comparisons challenging
a way to compare apples to apples
higher quality viewing leads to better/higher monetization and yield?
retention may also be a bigger impact

keep making investments
lost 15% of MAUs b/c of cont play
relationship of CPMs, revenue, etc.  

Allison :  not all users are created equal, new v rtn experience
youtube tv, no new user experience

improve experience to drive higher experience higher retention
small dents will give big returns high returns long term

low hanging fruit - churn 
wrap up the projects

1a. reg - modeling part
b. funnel optimization

vod landing exp
questions tbd

3. activation opt in session exp

4. pairing of investments to long term revenue

5. churn
and follow ups



